---
layout: post
title:  "Meditative Pain Mgmt and Human Processing Power Per Watt"
date:   2024-05-05 4:30:00
categories: mission
---


# Pain management / awareness / optimization might the optimal use of human processing power

When humans can learn to manage pain, they learn to manage their own processing power. The human brain is an incredibly powerful and efficient organ, capable of processing vast amounts of information and performing complex tasks with minimal energy consumption. However, much of the brain's processing power is used to fuel addictions OR to engage in hypochrondiasis or to catastrophize about fears and worries of increasing pain. The first set of exercise regimens that Melon Cave might want to address is the strategy for building the disciplines of meditative pain management ... in order to keep different forms of PAIN from consuming the processing power of the brain. 

# How efficient are human brains at processing complex neuroprocessing?

The human brain consumes approximately 20 watts of power on average ... but generally much less, maybe only a couple watts in a meditative, but aware state ... brains are subject to fritterware and many people do not ever address the causes of their attention deficit ... many humans crave the dopamine hit of maintaining a state of hyperarousal and they do not feel comfortable unless their brain is typically multitasking ... most human brains [in affluent cultures] are probably dominated by programmed worries and fears from a human's media consumption ... it's important to stress the importance of Melon Cave being, first of all an ANTI-media media ... it's IMPERATIVE that people shut off their media and regain control of their own minds. 

The human brain's power consumption is a relatively small amount compared to many electronic devices ... it's not even equivalent to the power required for a light bulb and on average less than even the consumption of a flashlight. Despite the brain's low power consumption, it is enormously efficient and powerful in terms of processing. The average human brain is estimated to have the equivalent processing power of slightly more than 1 exaFLOP (1 quintillion or 10^18 floating-point operations per second); as with all human attributes there are probably humans with capacities that double this. Oddly enough, the human processing power of 1 exaFLOP is comparable to what is currently the world's very most powerful supercomputer, which has a peak performance of 1.1 exaFLOPS. OBVIOUSLY, the problem with most human brains is that they are not being used in a focused manner, with the majority of an individual brain's processing power actually devoted to serving the individual's own best interests ... let alone, not being used to their fullest capacities ... which would be far beyond the 1 exaFLOP estimate, if humans actually trained their brains as athletes strength train for jumping ability. Also, we certainly know that humans are natively better at processing the highest human emotions, eg showing love/empathy or creatively commanding the battle in problem-solving strategies for gigantically important problems.

A really high-end computer workstation used for computer-aided design (CAD) or as a high-end game rig will typically consume between 500-1000 watts and some might even consume close to 2000 watts under peak, depending on the specifications and workload ... whereas an average desktop computer or miniPC will consume about 1/10th of what a high end workstation does, but still 10X more than the human brain. The world's world's most powerful supercomputer (as of August 2023): The Frontier supercomputer at Oak Ridge National Laboratory in the United States has a power consumption of approximately 21 megawatts (21 million watts) when running at full capacity. The Frontier supercomputer has a peak performance of 1.1 exaFLOPS.

It is true that modern smartphone has lower consumption than a human brain, since it typically consumes around 2-5 watts when in use, and less than 1 watt when idle ... HOWEVER most of the processing power of smartphones is actually used to distract or hyperarouse human beings ... a smartphone is actually more akin to a high end workstation being shutdown by a false warning from a connected printer telling the user that the printer has an urgent error with a partially full ink cartridge ... MOST OF THE TIME, smartphone should be isolated from its owner. As we all forget, the human owner is practically the LAST person on Earth who is actually in control of the processing power of a smartphone. It might seem severe to those who are addicted to their smartphones, but not exactly wrong to say that humanity would probably be better off if the smartphone-as-tethering-device to control humans were never invented ... VERY FEW people are actually remotely close to being able to even think about UNTETHERING themselves from their smartphones. 

